```markdown
# The use of consumer data to grow businesses
In this document, I discuss two articles about how businesses can use consumer data to achieve their business goals through recording and using customer data. One side advocates for more explicit data privacy constraints while the other emphasizes the competitive advantage gained by using consumer data.

## Article 1
In Forbes' [Why Data Privacy Is Good For Business: Online Privacy As A Branding Imperative](https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2021/10/07/why-data-privacy-is-good-for-business-online-privacy-as-a-branding-imperative/?sh=3f333a31297e), Gal Ringer makes the argument that data privacy is of increasing importance in considering when conducting business. Ringer urges business leaders to use the ring of data privacy at the forefront of their interactions with consumer data, while marketing it as such to enhance the company's brand name. Ringer makes use of many strategies from implementing internal operational change to ensuring company-wide compliance to reinforce that building around the idea of data privacy makes consumers trust you more, hence interact with your business at higher levels.

Ringer proposes that leaders share with their customers how they use their data in concise terms, hire privacy professionals within the organizaiton, and allow consumers to directly decide how their data can be used to promote autonomy. In this technologically developing world, it is quite important to address data privacy issues as part of ones business model. However, the article seems to be focused mostly on the PR side to show customers that data privacy is valued. The idea that consumers will have more power in their hands to determine their data usage is a powerful one to gain and retain customers who trust your brand.

## Article 2
In Harvard Business Review's ["When Data Creates Competitive Advantage"](https://hbr.org/2020/01/when-data-creates-competitive-advantage#:~:text=The%20more%20customers%20a%20firm,can%20collect%20still%20more%20data.), Hagiu and Wright make the arguments that increased use of consumer data ultimately produces more business value than not. With the advent of cloud technology and advanced computing, interpretting and analyzing data has become easier for companies. Consumer data can range from GPS locations to communication types to choices of content consumed. With this data, the authors maintain that companies can individualize their offerings to each customer, ultimately providing a better product. They maintain that the data will often add more value in creating better products, though the margin at which they do may reduce depending on the specific product.

While Hagiu and Wright focus on the quality of product developing, Ringer takes the other stance of how consumers interpret if a company is trustworthy or not. Hagiu and Wright make little effort to consider the brand percption implications of companies tracking and using more consumer data, while reinforcing that what consumers want is the final product they buy, withm more or less, any means necessary. The middleground can favor Ringer's side on informing consumers what their data is being used for so products can be developed efficiently while preserving company PR image.
